This video will explore the current and near future situation for the United States Navy following the cancellation of its latest warship, the Constellation class frigot. The first chapters briefly cover the frigot struggles, its importance, and the reasons for its cancellation alongside a look at possible future replacement options. The second half will offer a broader examination of the present and future state of the US Navy, analyzing trends in the fleet numbers and availability and comparing it with its greatest adversary, the Chinese Navy. Just a little heads up, Binkov made a 2026 wall calendar with some sexy fighter jets. It should go on sale soon, but for now, if you want to get notified when exactly it will be available, hop over to our wish list and enter an email of your choice.

More about the calendar very soon. We covered the constellation class and US ship building woes in a 2024 video that is essential viewing, so we don't want to repeat ourselves too much here. Go check it out. After years of deliberation over the unsuccessful literal combat ship classes, in 2020, the Navy decided to procure and adopt a ready foreign design for US Navy use. 5 years later, the lead ship was only 12% complete just before the cancellation. 9 months earlier, it was at 10%. That painfully slow pace had multiple reasons.

Over time, the US Navy demanded changes that reduce the original 85% commonality with the foreign design to just 15%. This suggests the Navy lacked qualified personnel to anticipate the impact of their changes and the builder lacked the experience to provide constructive feedback and construct ships larger than the LCS class. The constellation design grew in length, displacement, and received a new superructure. But the most problematic change was the requirement to meet specific US Navy damage stability, shock, and survivability standards designed to ensure compartmentalization, keeping a damaged ship afloat. While sensible, these changes were not wise to do with an already designed ship, adding over a billion in expenses, and several years of delays.

In February 2025, former US Navy Chief Acquisition Officer Nicholas Guon said this quote, "Sometimes you are better off designing a new ship, and it turns out modifying someone else's design is a lot harder than it seems." End quote. The redesign efforts led to performance issues, including weight growth that could not be fully rectified, prompting the Navy to consider reducing the ship's top speed requirement. The program collapsed and cancellation was announced on November 25th. The Navy had paid for six frigots, but only the first two, which are partially constructed, will be finished. Binkov speculates that these two hulls will not be frontline warships, but will likely serve for patrol, testing, or training as paying for complex warfighting systems integration for just two orphan hulls seems unwise.

A key reason for completing these two hulls is to retain the builder's workforce and expertise. The shipyard openly stated that quote, "Maintaining this shipyard and its skilled workforce is imperative to the Navy's long-term industrial base. The Navy's reportedly allowing the builder, Finanti Marinette, to keep billions of dollars appropriated for the remaining four hulls so it can now switch to other ship building programs." A statement from Finanti suggests as much. quote, "We believe the Navy will honor the agreed framework and channel work in sectors such as amphibious, icebreaking, and special mission ships into our shipyards while they determine how we can support the Navy with new types of small surface combatants, both manned and unmanned that they want to rapidly field." And here we come to another reason for the cancellation. Beyond the delays, extra cost, and compromised performance, all resulting from the combination of not so capable Navy and ship builder officials and engineers, in the 10 years since the Navy realized it wants something else other than LCS ships, its strategic needs changed. And the reason for that can be summed up in one word, China.

Its military buildup has occurred at such speed in both quantity and quality that the US Navy determined the constellation class itself was no longer suitable. The frigot was originally intended to be relatively cheap to build and operate used for less demanding secondary missions such as patrol antipiriracy and importantly ocean escort of logistics and amphibious assault ships. Escorting ships behind the front line means enemy submarines are the main threat. So anti-ubmarine capabilities were put at the forefront of the constellation design. It also retained a decent anti-air capability likely for self-defense from missiles when used as part of a larger frontline combat fleet.

The US Navy is now focused on new requirements. Secretary of the Navy John Felon said, "We are reshaping how the Navy builds its fleet. Navy is walking away from the constellation frigot to focus on new classes of warships the service can build faster. An unnamed official told the defense news outlet that a key factor in determination was the need to grow the fleet faster to meet future threats and that cancelling the program enables the Navy to more rapidly build new ship classes in greater numbers and deliver better capabilities. This new sense of urgency was foreshadowed by Secretary of Defense Hexath in November who stated, "The sense of urgency has slipped too much.

When you look at what we face, we have to recapture it." The replacement for the constellation class has not been disclosed, but Binkov speculates unmanned ships will be a key part of the solution. This past summer, the Navy announced formal requirements for the modular attack surface craft program after a lengthy development. Three ship types are needed. A key requirement is speed of construction with fris deliveries expected just 18 months from the prototype award, which is crazy fast for a new Navy ship. The Navy emphasized readiness, remote operation, open architecture, and non-exquisite designs.

So, a wide array of shipyards can handle repair and maintenance. That addresses the current problem of limited shipyard capacity, creating big backlogs of ships requiring maintenance. All three types will carry containerized payloads, for example, for Tomahawk or 16 ESSM anti-air missiles in a 40ft container. The smallest ship is likely for anti-ubmarine warfare, stemming from its requirement for an unobstructed rear suitable for deploying toad sonar. Large unmanned ships were previously described as up to 300 ft long and displacing 2,000 tons, roughly one quarter the constellation's weight.

Binkov speculates these unmanned ships will not fully replace a manned frigot and that a new smaller, less demanding frigot built quickly to commercial standards may still emerge. This new frigot may drop the frontline anti-ubmarine requirement to be performed by unmanned ships, but should retain the ocean escort anti-ubmarine mission, where a larger hull is better for escorting ships at speed compared to a 2,000 ton unmanned hull. But how did the US Navy even find itself in this situation where there are scrambling to keep pace with China? The United States ship building sector has atrophied after decades of neglect resulting in fewer shipyards and a scarcity of qualified workers and engineers for highlevel ship building and design. The US firm Gibbs and Cox, which was tasked with reworking the constellation class, experienced similar issues.

This problem is widespread. Nearly every US Navy ship building program is experiencing delays. Even the Burke class destroyer, an old well-known product, has hit the snag with follow-up hulls for the latest subclass potentially years late. Apparently, the first flight 3 ship was like a non-standard prototype, and later ships need further work. The Burks are the most numerous surface combatants with approximately 75 ships in service, but the oldest are 35 years old.

They were scheduled for retirement, but the Navy must now continue using them into the 2030s. Since new ships are not being built at the 1990 space of the initial Burks, the number of Burks in the fleet will inevitably begin to fall by the 2030s. This reality partly drove the decision to seek a cheaper frigot to lessen the load on the Burks, and it explains why the Navy is heavily promoting distributed firepower from unmanned ships. Historically, Burks performed even antipiriracy missions because the US Navy locked enough ships that were cheaper. Using unmanned ships to escort Burks on the front lines could also reduce the need for destroyers in those roles.

The entire fleet is aging, hard to maintain and suffering. Not just the destroyers. The amphibious assault ship fleet is the worst example. Congress mandates 31 such ships. And while the Navy has 32, a 2024 Government Accountability Office report founded that 50% or 16 ships are in poor material condition.

This has led to multiple deployments being cancelled or postponed due to ships unavailability. This issue is partly why the Navy sought to introduce a new smaller and cheaper class of landing ships to help retain the mandated number and afford maintenance. However, that ship class has also been delayed and the planned bespoke design was replaced with procuring commercial already existing designs. Submarines are also affected with a 2023 report showing 37% being out of action for maintenance, well above the Navy's 20% target. That being said, the Navy has recognized that improving ship maintenance is an urgent need and on-time maintenance completion rates have been getting better.

So, US Navy plans for the next few decades can be summed up as this. We can't compete with China on building as many high-end ships. So, we will build more of the smaller, cheaper ships, be those commercialrade landing ships or unmanned vessels. Trouble with that logic is that China too can do the same if they wish to do so. Their ship building sector is in an immensely better position to do it.

A worldwide review of large cargo ships on order in 2024 showed Chinese shipyards had 3,400 ships on order compared to a total of only three ships for US shipyards, 1,100 times fewer. This massive difference, which has greatly accelerated since 2022, highlights that commercial US ship building is virtually non-existent with the majority of large ship construction in the states being for the Navy. This makes it extremely difficult to quickly upscale production if a conflict were to break out. Such industry wos contributed to the smaller or less qualified workforce for building navies warships explaining why US warship construction has consistently lagged behind China for years. The trends are unrelenting for 2025.

It is assumed the carrier enterprise will not be launched before the year's end due to announced delays and China submarine launches are estimated from photos. Current trends show the US Navy is not significantly increasing its number of newly built ships per average year and its combined tonnage remains steady. In contrast, China had a record 5-year period for combined tonnage. The smaller number of ships China launches means the individual hulls are now large and capable. Long gone are the days when the Chinese Navy was reliant on masses of small coastal ships.

The period from 2026 to 2030 may see an improvement for the US Navy with the Ford class carrier construction hitting its stride and the delayed enterprise rolling over to 2026 resulting in two carrier launches by 2030. this plus two more America class landing ships about three San Antonio class landing ships some of those new medium-sized landing ships and the regular pace of Burks and Virginiaas sets the Navy to hit a record figure of over 600,000 tons. The tonnage of new Chinese ships by 2030 is impossible to estimate, but it is plausible that China could also launch two new carriers by then, as well as drastically increase its nuke submarine production. The US Navy's longerterm ship building plans analyzed by the Congressional Budget Office for 2025 through 204 project several general trends despite being subject to change. Carrier numbers are expected to drop from approximately 11 to 9 and destroyers from about 85 to just under 80. Attack submarines are a bright spot projected to rise from nearly 50 today to over 60 and landing ship fleet is expected to double in size due to the introduction of the new small ship class.

The replacement for the Burke class destroyer has been postponed with construction start for the lead ship not expected before 2032 and service entry in the late 2030s. The plan envisions limited numbers of the new destroyers, meaning advanced Bergs may remain the backbone of the US Navy for the next 50 years or so. The constellation class was projected to fully replace literal combat ships from the 2040s with a fleet of up to 60 hulls. Though now cancelled, a new frigate design likely numbering at least two dozen is still expected with many smaller unmanned ships filling the gap. Overall, the US Navy is projected to grow from 290 ships today to mid30 ships by 204.

This strategy of procuring smaller and cheaper ships to keep up the overall numbers is the opposite of the example the Chinese Navy has followed which has focused on building larger ships. While China is also likely to adopt unmanned ships, they may be added on top of its large fleet rather than replacing a part of it. Although the United States Navy is beset with problems, its sheer size enables it to fulfill its duties. However, its capability edge will continue to erode over the coming decades, an inevitable result of the financial and industrial realities of the country. If the US wants to win over China, it might be in its interest to somehow do it sooner rather than later.

And remember, Binkov may talk about war, but only real peace can bring us all together.